{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs28\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f4\fs28\lang1033\kerning1 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\ql\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\ql\sl276\slmult1\widctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\ai\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1 Index;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/6.4.5.2$Windows_X86_64 LibreOffice_project/a726b36747cf2001e06b58ad5db1aa3a9a1872d6}{\info{\creatim\yr2020\mo9\dy14\hr20\min23}{\revtim\yr2020\mo9\dy14\hr20\min54}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\hyphauto1\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
PRA3021 W2 report \u8211\'96 Dynamical Systems}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 1: Wrote in code to perform calculations as specified on the pdf, used given values for the mass of moon and earth, since one whole revolution of the moon in its period of orbit would return it to it\u8217\'92s original position I calculated the position of the moon based on the change in angle for a given unit of time, which I defined as dtheta, adding dtheta to the initial value of theta for the moon will give it\u8217\'92s position at any given time. Using the test_moon_position file I plotted the orbit of the moon around the earth, producing a circle. The moon does not actually orbit the earth in a perfect circle, however due to the way the calculation was computed (not accounting for gravity etc) this is a satisfying result.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 2: Wrote in code to perform the specified equation on the pdf, the function I created takes an input of the satellites position relative to the moon and the moons position relative to the earth in order to calculate the acceleration of the spaceship. The function  passed both of the tests specified in the test_spaceship_acceleration document.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 3: Wrote in a function to produce an output of the state space function that represents the motion of the spaceship based on its initial position, velocity and the position of the moon at the specified time. The function calls on both previous exercises in order to get the moon\u8217\'92s position at a specified time and the acceleration of the spaceship based on this. The function outputs f(t,y) where y represents the spaceships motion at a given time, this was then plotted using the test_spaceship_motion file and produces the spaceship\u8217\'92s orbit around the moon\u8217\'92s position relative to the earth.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 4: Did what was specified in the document, not too much to say here, given that it was included in the previous exercise\u8217\'92s test file.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 5: Wrote in a function to simulate the motion of the spaceship using euler\u8217\'92s method instead of one of the built in matlab ODE solver, producing a bent line which shows the spaceship moving away from the earth, this is not similar to what happens with the matlab ODE solver, however this is due to the fact that the matlab ode solver\u8217\'92s are much more complex than euler\u8217\'92s method, and don\u8217\'92t use a fixed step size.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 6: Same as above, except using Ralston\u8217\'92s method instead of euler\u8217\'92s. Applying any of the higher order methods into matlab code is identical to both the Ralston and euler code, as demonastrated in the runge_kutta file, which is just copy pasted Ralston\u8217\'92s method code with the for loop changed in order to perform the runge kutta algorithm instead. Both of these produce output different to matlab\u8217\'92s ODE, and }{\loch
nearly}{\loch
 identical to euler\u8217\'92s method, }{\loch
the only difference being the higher the order of the method, the less steep the gradient of the line.}{\loch
 }{\loch
O}{\loch
nce again this is due to the simplicity of these method\u8217\'92s compared to matlab\u8217\'92s ODE solvers.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql{\loch
Exercise 7: It was extremley unclear as to how to go about actually implementing this exercise, as the powerpoint only shows some equations and formulas, but does not explain what they are or how to use them, or what any of the variables are, hence I did not complete or attempt exercise 7. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\dbch\af5\langfe1081\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\ql\widctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\kerning1\ql\loch

\par }